Add WebGPU article (#6005)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/gpu/index.md

---
title: Access modern GPU features with WebGPU
subhead: |
  WebGPU enables high-performance 3D graphics and data-parallel computation on
  the Web.
authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
  - cwallez
date: 2021-08-26
#updated: 2021-08-26
hero: image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/SN6GIsxmcINXJZKszOTr.jpeg
thumbnail: image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/SN6GIsxmcINXJZKszOTr.jpeg
description: |
  WebGPU enables high-performance 3D graphics and data-parallel computation on
  the Web.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - games
feedback:
  - api
stack_overflow_tag: webgpu
---

## What is WebGPU? {: #what }

> [WebGPU] is a new API for the web that exposes modern computer graphics APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WebGPU] is a new web API that exposes modern computer graphics APIs
```

Reviewer: Graphics APIs or graphics capabilities? Doesn't WebGPU just wrap lower-level capabilities rather than provide pass-through access?

Reviewer 2: Good call, "computer graphics capabilities" would work well.

Author: Done.

Reviewer: Both parts?

Reviewer: Both the change to 'capabilities' and the text tweek?

Author: Yes.

> such as Direct3D 12, Metal, and Vulkan for performing rendering and computation

Reviewer: Is this list comprehensive or just examples? 'Such as' made me think examples. The diagram makes me think comprehensive. Please clarify this.

Author: This list is comprehensive.

Reviewer: I have a new suggestion that clarifies that.

Author: What is the proper way to mention those APIs then?

> [WebGPU] is a new web API that exposes modern computer graphics capabilities
> such as Direct3D 12, Metal, and Vulkan for performing rendering and computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WebGPU] is a new web API that exposes modern computer graphics capabilities,
specifically Direct3D 12, Metal, and Vulkan, for performing rendering and computation
```

Author: Done.

> operations on a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operations on a graphics processing unit (GPU).
```

Author: Done

<figure class="w-figure">

>   {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/WHoJmX2IU7roV4iabH6M.png", alt="Architecture diagram highlighting platform OS APIs used in WebGPU", width="800", height="313" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/WHoJmX2IU7roV4iabH6M.png", alt="Architecture diagram showing WebGPUs connection between OS APIs and Direct3D 12, Metal, and Vulkan.", width="800", height="313" %}
```

Author: Done

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">WebGPU architecture diagram</figcaption>
</figure>

This goal is similar to the [WebGL] family of APIs, but WebGPU enables access to

> more advanced features of GPUs. Whereas WebGL is mostly for drawing images but
> can be repurposed with great effort to do other kinds of computations, WebGPU
> has first-class support for performing general computations on the GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more advanced features of GPUs. Whereas WebGL is mostly for drawing images (but
can be repurposed with great effort for other kinds of computations), WebGPU
provides first-class support for performing general computations on the GPU.
```

Author: Done

> After 4 years of development at the [W3C's "GPU for the Web" Community Group],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After four years of development in the [W3C's "GPU for the Web" Community Group],
```

Author: Done

> WebGPU is now ready for developers to try it out in Chrome and give feedback on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebGPU is now ready for developers to try in Chrome and give feedback on
```

Author: Done

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">WebGPU architecture diagram</figcaption>
</figure>

This goal is similar to the [WebGL] family of APIs, but WebGPU enables access to
more advanced features of GPUs. Whereas WebGL is mostly for drawing images but
can be repurposed with great effort for other kinds of computations, WebGPU
provides first-class support for performing general computations on the GPU.

After four years of development in the [W3C's "GPU for the Web" Community
Group], WebGPU is now ready for developers to try in Chrome and give feedback on
the API and the shading language.

{% Blockquote 'Mr.doob, Creator of Three.js' %}
"After a decade of WebGL bringing 3D graphics to the web and enabling all sorts
of new experiences, it's now time to upgrade the stack and help web developers
take full advantage of modern graphics cards. WebGPU arrives just in time!"
{% endBlockquote %}

{% Blockquote 'David Catuhe, Creator of Babylon.js' %}
WebGPU gets us closer to the metal and it also unlocks the power of compute
shader for Web developers. New 3D experiences can be built today on [Babylon.js
Playground].
{% endBlockquote %}

> {% Video src="video/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/Xb7LvsJ5e8efTssp94c6.mov", autoplay=true, muted=true, playsinline=true, loop=true %}

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could have an explanation of what we see in the video: A Babylon.js demo <link> of a rough sea being simulated using WebGPU's compute shader capability.

Author: Good catch! Done.
